ques1:What is Programming language?
answer:A programming language is a formal set of instructions used to communicate with computers and create software, websites, applications, and systems.
It provides the rules and syntax that developers use to write code, which is then interpreted or compiled into machine language for the computer to execute.
Programming languages can be high-level,like Python,Java, or C++, which are easier for humans to understand,or low-level, like assembly language, which is closer to machine code.
Each language has its own purpose and strengths, making it suitable for specific tasks such as web development,data analysis,game creation, or system programming.

ques2:Why do we need a programming language?
answer:We need a programming language because it allows us to communicate with computers and instruct them to perform specific tasks.
Computers do not understand human language,so programming languages act as a bridge between humans and machines.
They help us write clear, logical instructions that computers can follow to solve problems, automate tasks, process data, build software, control devices, and much more.
Without programming languages, we would not be able to create websites, apps, games, or operate modern technologies.
In short, programming languages make it possible to harness the power of computers to improve our daily lives and work.

ques3:What are the features of Java?
answer:basic features of java:
(i)simple (ii)object oriented (iii)portable (iv)platfrom independent (v)WORA: write once,run anywhere 

ques4:What is an Object?
answer:an object is an entity with state and behaviour.

ques5:What is a class?
answer:a class is a collection of objects that have similar traits,behaviours,and attributes.

ques6:Explain about the main() method in Java?
answer:In Java, the main() method is the entry point of any standalone Java application.When you run a Java program,the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) looks for the main() method to start the execution.
Syntax:
public static void main(String[] args) {
    // Code to be executed
}
Explanation of each part:
public: The method is accessible from anywhere.
static: The method can be called without creating an object of the class.
void: The method does not return any value.
main: The name of the method recognized by JVM as the starting point.
String[] args: It accepts an array of String arguments from the command line.
Without the main() method, a Java program won't run unless it's part of a framework (like JavaFX or a servlet) that defines another entry point.
