Ques 1:How to check if git is available on your system?
Solution 1:To check if Git is available on system, follow these steps:
1. Open the Command Prompt (in Windows) or Terminal (in macOS/Linux).
2. Type the following command and press Enter:
   git --version
3. If Git is installed, it will show the Git version.
4. If Git is not installed, it will show an error message.

Ques 2:How to initialize a new Git repository ?
solution 2:To initialize a new Git repository, follow these steps:
1. First, open Command Prompt or Terminal.
2. Go to the folder where you want to create the Git repository.
Use the cd command to go to that folder.
Example:cd my-project
3. Then, type the following command and press Enter:
   git init
4. This command will create a new hidden folder named .git inside your project.
It means Git is now tracking the changes in your project.
So, git init is used to start a new Git repository.

Ques 3:How to tell git about your name and email ?
solution 3:To tell Git your name and email, use the following commands in the Command Prompt or Terminal:
1. Set your name:
   git config --global user.name "Your Name"
2. Set your email:
  git config --global user.email "your-email@example.com"
These commands tell Git who you are. This information is saved with every commit you make.
> Example:
  git config --global user.name "Inayash Akhtar"
  git config --global user.email "inayash@example.com"

Ques 4:How to add a file to the staging area ?
solution 4:To add a file to the staging area in Git, use the following command in Command Prompt or Terminal:
          git add filename
This command tells Git to start tracking changes of that file and prepare it for the next commit.
> Example:
  git add index.html
If you want to add all files, use:
  git add .
This adds all the changed or new files to the staging area.

Ques 5:How to remove a file from the staging area ?
Solution 5: To remove a file from the staging area in Git, use the following command:
            git reset filename
This command removes the file from the staging area but does not delete the file from your folder.
> Example:
  git reset index.html
This will unstage index.html, so it won’t be included in the next commit.
If you want to unstage all files, use:
  git reset

Ques 6:How to make a commit?
Solution 6:To make a commit in Git, use the following command in Command Prompt or Terminal:
           git commit -m "Your message here"
This command saves the changes from the staging area to the local repository with a message.
> Example:
  git commit -m "Added login page"
The message should explain what changes you made.
Every commit helps you keep a history of your project.

Ques 7:How to send your changes to a remote repository?
Solution 7:To send your changes to a remote repository (like GitHub), use the following command:
           git push origin branch-name
origin is the default name of the remote repository.
branch-name is usually main or master.
> Example:
  git push origin main
This command uploads your local commits to the remote GitHub repository.
Note: You must first connect your local repo to a remote using:
git remote add origin <repository-URL>

Ques 8:What is the difference between clone and pull?
solution 8:git clone	It is used to copy a remote repository to your local system for the first time. It creates a new folder with all files, branches, and commit history.
git pull	It is used to download the latest changes from the remote repository into an existing local repository. It updates your current files and merges new commits.
Example:
git clone https://github.com/user/repo.git
→ Clones the full repository.
git pull origin main
→ Pulls the latest changes from the main branch of the remote.
